Good afternoon and
welcome to session 211.
This is Application Programming
with QTKit.
My name is Tim Monroe and I've had the
pleasure of serving as the tech lead for
QTKit for about the past year and a half.
I'm sure you're all aware that QTKit is
a Cocoa framework for QuickTime.
The Cocoa side of the ledger
is fairly straightforward.
To say QTKit is a Cocoa framework means
that it is a set of Objective-C classes.
The interfaces to the methods
in these classes use standard
Cocoa data types like NSArrays,
NSDictionary's,
file names are passed as NSStrings,
URLs as NSURLs.
Changes in objects in the kit can be
announced to other objects in your
application by means of notifications,
the standard Cocoa mechanism.
And some of the objects in the QTKit have
delegate methods so that other objects in
your application can actually take part
and modify the behavior of QTKit objects.
So the QuickTime part
is a little tougher.
QuickTime is a huge technology,
and it's simply not true
to say that QTKit wraps the
entire QuickTime technology.
Probably the fairest thing to say
is that QTKit is a Cocoa framework
that allows you to open,
display, and manipulate QuickTime movies.
So there's huge chunks of functionality
that we don't yet handle in QTKit that
we ultimately would like to,
such as audio and video capture,
broadcasting,
working with specific media types.
Those are things that
we'd like your input on,
where you'd like to see the QTKit go,
so that we can grow the
QTKit to meet your needs.
Now, Kit already has some
very important clients,
and I've listed just three of them here.
It turns out that all through Tiger,
people are turning to QTKit in
order to display QuickTime movies.
These three get special mention because
they are what I call key clients.
They have not only used the Kit,
but they've also given
us important feedback,
and more importantly,
made demands on the Kit.
So there are methods in the Kit that
can be traced to each one of these guys.
Spotlight, for instance,
uses QTKit to display the thumbnail
images of any movies that might turn
up in a search that you have executed.
QuickTime Player,
as I'm sure you're aware,
is built heavily on QTKit.
Our goal was to put as much of the
functionality for opening and playing
QuickTime movies into the framework
so that QuickTime Player could be
a fairly thin layer on top of that.
The benefit to you as developers,
of course, is that you get all that
functionality basically for free.
And also, you may have seen the
earlier keynote this week.
Pixar has based a number of their
in-house movie production tools on QTKit,
and we'll see a little bit of that later.
So what are we going to do today?
I'm going to give a
brief overview of QTKit.
It's not going to be in tremendous
depth because you've got some really
good documentation to work from.
Then we will jump right
into hands on coding.
I'll start off by building a couple
of command line tools to give you
an idea of just how easy it is
to get up and running with QTKit.
Then we will build from scratch
a graphical application,
which is what most of you
are likely to want to do.
That is to display QuickTime movies
in an application on the screen.
And finally, we'll end with some fairly
advanced considerations,
in particular how to use QTKit in
a multi-threaded environment.
Now I'm skeptical that we're actually
going to have time for summary or Q&A,
but that's not all bad.
Because later this evening,
we have a... a three hour
session over in the Tiger Lab,
which will be devoted entirely to QTKit.
So come on in, bring your questions.
We can look at your code.
If you have existing code that
uses the Cocoa QuickTime classes,
NSMovie or NSMovieView,
maybe we can help you port them over.
And then if that's not enough,
we'll be back here tomorrow
morning in the Graphics and Imaging
Lab to continue that discussion.
So let me give a quick
overview of what's in QTKit.
QTKit currently consists of five public
classes that are listed there in white,
and two data structures
that you'll be working with,
which are listed in blue.
QTMovieView is just what you'd expect.
It's a view object where you will
display QuickTime content and
allow the user to interact with it.
The next four public classes
are object-oriented wrappers
around QuickTime data types,
in particular movies, tracks, media,
and data references.
And finally, we have the two structures,
which are our ways of indicating
times or time ranges in a movie.
So let's look at QTTime.
As you can see,
there are three fields here.
The first one is a duration
or time value for a movie.
Now that value is always interpreted
relative to the time scale field,
which is the number of units
per second in the time value.
Finally, we have a flags field,
which allows us to indicate
various things about the QT time.
For instance,
if you were to pass into us a QT time
that had a time scale of zero,
which is invalid,
then we would pass you back a
QT time that had the QT time
is indefinite bit set,
essentially indicating to you that
you should ignore the other fields.
There are a large number of utility
functions that you can use to
fill out a QT time structure or
to operate on QT time structures.
So you can see the QT make time,
you give us the time
value and the time scale,
and we'll pass you back an appropriately
filled out QT time structure.
Or if you have two QT time structures and
you'd like to add them to one another,
you can use the QT time
increment function.
Finally, as an example,
if you have a QT time structure
and you'd like it represented in
another time scale for some reason,
you can use the QT make
time scaled function.
QTTimeRange is again a
very simple structure.
It indicates a range within a movie
and it is just what you'd expect.
It's a QTTime structure that
indicates the start time and another
one that indicates the duration.
And once again there's a large number
of utility functions you can use to
fill out QTTimeRange structures or to
perform various operations on them.
QTMovie is the first
class I'll talk about.
It is by far the richest class in QTKit.
There's a large number of functions or
methods that you'll want to use here.
There's a fairly broad number,
spectrum of methods that you can
use to create a QTMovie object.
And I've listed just some of them here.
For instance, if you give us a file name,
we will read the movie from that
file and give you a QTMovie object.
You can also pass us a URL,
a data reference.
You may have your movie
data in an NSData block.
Or finally,
you could put a movie into the Nib
file and read it out of the Nib
file with the movie named method.
You'll notice that most of these
methods have an error parameter.
So that if you, if we encounter an error,
when trying to open the movie
that you've indicated to us,
we can pass you back an NSError object,
which will indicate to
you what error occurred,
and in fact will give you
a localized string that you
could display to the user.
QTMovie, as I said, is a very rich class,
and this is just a small summary of
some of the methods that are in it.
There are methods for going to the
beginning and the end of the movie.
There's a method for
getting the current time,
and notice that it gives you
back a QT time structure.
If you want,
you can get a dictionary that contains
key value pairs for all the publicly
defined attributes in a movie.
There are a number of editing methods,
for instance, delete segment,
which we'll work with in a minute.
If you want to get an array
of all the tracks in a movie,
we have a tracks method.
And the last two methods here
are particularly important.
I mentioned that QuickTime is
a very broad technology,
and that QTKit currently
wraps only a part of it.
So it's fairly likely that if
you're doing intricate stuff,
you'll want to use those Carbon APIs.
To do that,
you're going to need either the movie
or the movie controller identifier,
and you can get those with
the QuickTime movie or the
QuickTime movie controller method.
QTTrack, as you know,
a QuickTime movie consists
of a number of tracks.
So we have the QTTrack object to
correspond to a QuickTime track.
Currently there's only one way
to create a QT track object,
which is to already have a
QuickTime track and then to use
the initWithQuickTimeTrack method.
Once again,
looking at the final method there,
if you need to use
Carbon APIs that operate on tracks,
you can get the track identifier
associated with the QT track object.
Now a class that you're likely to
use quite extensively is QTMovieView.
This is a subclass of NSView that is
associated with the QTMovie object.
You make that association
with the SetMovie method,
which is the first one I've listed there.
There are a number of attributes that
you can get and set on the MovieView.
For instance,
you can determine whether the controller
bar that's drawn at the bottom of
a movie is visible or invisible.
You can set whether resizing
the view preserves the aspect
ratio of the movie or not.
If you have that attribute set,
then parts of the MovieView that
are not drawn with the movie data
will be painted with a fill color,
which is specifiable by you.
And also you can set the editable
state of the movie in the MovieView.
So much for theory.
Let's actually do some
work with QTKit here.
And let's move over to demo one, please.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so we've opened the movie,
we've made it editable,
now let's edit it.
We do that with the delete segment
method in the next line of code,
and that chops out the specified segment.
Then we can call the
updateMovieFile method,
and that will update the movie file
associated with this QTMovie object.
So let's actually run this.
First thing I want to do is
I've got a movie called abc.move
in the current directory.
Let's copy that into the
specified location in /tmp.
Now let's build our tool.
You can see I'm using C compiler,
telling it what my output file is,
what my input file is.
And notice that I'm linking
against the QTKit framework
and the foundation framework.
So let's build that tool.
That took no time at all.
And now let's run it.
Okay, so let's open the original file
and we'll see that it's a six
second movie that has three frames,
each frame is two seconds long.
Nothing exciting there.
Now let's open the edited movie.
And it should be just the same,
except that it should have
the final two seconds cut out.
And indeed when we play it we see
that it is now four seconds long,
missing the last frame.
So there was a very simple command line
tool that did actual interesting work.
So let's quit that and
let's do one more example.
I'm moving to another directory
where I have this move to 3GP.m file,
and let's take a look at that.
This is actually simpler than
the one we just considered.
What this does is it will open
that same movie file and then it
will export it into a 3GPP file.
That is to say a file that is
suitable for streaming to a 3GPP
handset such as a cell phone.
So again we include the QTKit headers,
we create our auto-release pool,
later release it, we open the movie with
exactly the same line of code,
and what we want to use now
is the write-to-file method.
Write-to-file is a general method
for taking an existing movie
and putting it into a different
file in some different form.
That could mean flattening the movie,
it could mean exporting the movie,
in this case we want to export the movie.
How do we do that?
Well, the key is this "with
attributes" dictionary.
And if you look here,
when we create the dictionary,
we add in a key value pair that
says "I want you to export the
movie" and I want the type of the
exported file to be a 3GPP file.
Notice that we did not, in this case,
need to make the movie editable,
because we're not editing the movie.
We're opening it and then writing
it out as some other form.
So now let's run this guy.
First we better build it.
Copy that command line there.
Build the tool.
Run it.
And now let's open that
file at /temp/sample.3gp.
And notice that this is smaller
than the original movie.
That's because the 3GPP spec
says these are smaller movies.
This is 176 by 144 pixels.
Now, if the original movie
had had a soundtrack,
this export operation would also
have transcoded the soundtrack
into a 3GPP compatible form.
So that's all I want to do for you here.
What I'd like to do now is bring up
the tech lead for the QuickTime player.
Could I go back to slides please?
Thank you.
For the QuickTime player application
to give us a few thoughts on
QuickTime player's use of QTKit.
Gary Flint.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Are we on?
OK.
One of the challenges for the QTKit team,
of course,
was to build a framework that would not
only encompass some subset of QuickTime,
but also create an interface that
looked familiar to Cocoa programmers.
Because those of you familiar
with the QuickTime APIs know
they're very different indeed.
So I'd like to show some examples
of integrating QTKit with
an AppKit-based application,
of which the QuickTime player
in QuickTime 7.0 is.
The first feature I'm going to
show is the code it required for
us to implement a multiple undo.
The old QuickTime APIs supported
single-level undo.
And when we were working
on the Cocoa-based player,
we certainly wanted to
support multiple undo,
because most Cocoa applications do.
The decision was, is that a play-based?
Is it a clear feature or a kit feature?
Fortunately for you, and for us,
the feature was pushed down into the kit.
So the kit gives us
multiple undo support.
And here's what it takes to access that
functionality in your own application.
This may look a little oversimplified,
but this is actually it.
As Tim mentioned earlier,
you have to turn on
editability of a movie.
Once you've built your user interface
using Interface Builder and connected
up your edit menu items appropriately,
it all just works if you're
using a Qt movie view.
And this Qt kit,
besides providing support
for multiple undo,
of course,
is implementing most of the high-level
editing features of the edit menu,
cut, copy, paste, et cetera.
The next example demonstrates
the code we had to write in the
Cocoa player to support drag and drop.
It may look like we didn't
finish the slide here,
but this is actually it.
The Qt kit completely implements
drag and drop support.
If you turn on editability,
it's just there.
If you're familiar with
the old Carbon APIs,
it did take one line of code in the
old Carbon APIs to enable the movie
controller to support drag and drop.
But we're actually not even using
that functionality in Qt kit.
Drag and drop has been re-implemented
so that it supports all the
drag and drop features you would
expect in a Cocoa application.
I think the Qt kit team had a motto,
which should be less code, more features.
The next example here
is saving a document.
Tim showed earlier how to update
a movie file as well as how
to write to a new movie file.
In QTKit,
basically we have to make one choice when
the user requests to save a document,
and that's can this movie
be saved on top of itself?
Some movie files, some formats cannot,
such as .mp4.
They have to be saved
into a separate file.
So this is the extent of the
logic in QuickTime Player to
make that determination.
If it can't be saved on itself,
we save it as a separate file.
Otherwise, we save the file in place.
And here's the implementation
of the method to actually update
the movie file in the player.
If it's a save operation,
we simply call updateMovieFile.
So even in the player,
saving an edited movie is as simple
as the sample that Tim gave earlier.
The next example
QTKit is listening for notifications.
If you use the Carbon APIs and you've
had to deal with an action filter,
you know that there are a
lot of different actions.
You have to decide what
you're going to listen to,
what you're not interested
in listening to,
and they have different parameters,
different, and sometimes slightly
different behaviors.
QTKit has basically encapsulated these
mechanisms as well as a few additional
mechanisms behind Cocoa notifications.
So you can basically register to
listen to notifications that your
application is interested in.
In this case, this shows listening to a
movie edited notification.
The next slide shows a few additional
notifications that the kit supports,
listening to movie size
change notifications,
did end, etc.
Why are there of wired movie support
for enter and exit full screen.
One that I'd like to point out here
is the load state change notification,
because that was not an
action in the Carbon API.
It was actually a toolbox call.
The old player, the Carbon player,
actually had probably over 150 lines
of code dedicated to monitoring
the movie load state and knowing
when the load state had changed
so it could do the right thing.
But all that functionality is
now implemented in the kit.
So all you have to do is listen
for a load state notification,
and your application will receive it
when QtKit sends the notification.
So if you're wondering how
much of QtKit we've actually
used in QuickTime Player,
we're using the vast majority of
the calls and features of QtKit.
Since QtKit covers the basic
functionality for playback and file
handling functionality that you'd want.
And in QuickTime application,
it allows us to focus on the unique
features of QuickTime Player.
And I'd say that's the same
reason for anyone to adopt QtKit.
It handles all the basic
functionality for you,
and you can focus on whatever
makes your application unique.
Thanks.
Thank you, Gary.
So I don't think you came here
to build command line tools,
so I think you want to
build some GUI tools.
And to lead us through that process,
I'd like to bring up the person who is
in charge of the documentation for QTKit,
and that is Tom Maremaa.
Thanks, Tim.
QTKit, awesome or what?
Good afternoon.
Quickly, I'd like to get a show of hands.
How many of you guys out
there are Cocoa developers?
Do I see any?
Wow, awesome.
How many of you guys are
QuickTime developers?
Not bad.
How many of you guys like to cook?
Let's see some show of hands.
All right.
Good things happen in the kitchen.
Good recipes come out of the kitchen.
The recipe for the QTKit player
app came out of this eco-friendly
brown paper napkin from the
Cafe Mac cafeteria on the Apple campus.
So from this,
rather than pass this around to you guys,
I thought, Hey,
why don't we blow it up full screen?
I'd like to do three things
here with my QTKit Player app.
Number one, I want to import,
and I want to import everything,
all the media types,
variety of media types
that QuickTime supports,
and that's 200 and counting.
Number two,
I'd like to do three things
here with my QtKit player app.
Number one, I want to import,
and I want to import everything,
all the media types,
a variety of media types
that QuickTime supports.
And that's 200 and counting.
Number two,
I can really do take advantage
of the editing capabilities.
So with that,
let's move forward to demo one,
and let's get cooking.
Welcome to my kitchen.
As you can see, I've got an appetizer,
which I'm going to build from scratch.
I've got something in the oven.
If you guys downloaded the sample code,
you've got it as well.
I also have the cookbooks,
the QTKit reference, programming guide,
and the update to QuickTime 7.
And I have something in the freezer.
And finally,
I have a lot of media goodies.
And I want my QTKit player to, as I say,
do things with my media goodies.
So with that in mind, let's get started.
With Xcode, let's launch Xcode and
let's build it from scratch.
Maybe you guys want to
follow this along with me,
at least take it up to a certain point.
Obviously, start my new project,
and what am I looking at?
I'm looking at a
Cocoa document-based project.
What do we want to call it?
QTKit, how about just Simple Guy Player?
Let's be imaginative, right?
There's my Simple Guy player.
And if I open it up,
I can see what I have.
First thing that I need to do,
I need to add to my project
the QTKit framework.
Well, where does that live?
That lives in the system folder.
Library, where else would it be?
Frameworks, and with a little bit of
scrolling if I can get there.
Hello?
Down.
There it is.
That's what I need to add.
Add it to my target, and I'm cooking,
okay?
Next thing that I want to do is
I'd like to take a look at my
[Transcript missing]
In my Info.plist, QuickTime file,
I think this is correct.
Maybe Tim can help me out on this one,
huh?
My file extensions for QuickTime are mov,
right?
And my OS types are the
QuickTime file types,
which are mov.
So I'm going to save
that in my info.p list.
Next,
Let's go and launch Interface Builder.
Hey, where is our QTKit palette?
Let's find it.
The QTKit palette resides
Of all places, let's open up our QTKit.
Don't ask me to explain why,
but it does live in the extras.
is that not able to open it up?
Just add.
There we go.
You won't let me open up extras?
There it is.
There's some palettes,
and there's my QTKit palette.
Okay.
Why don't I close my
preferences very quickly,
and let's just do some
You won't let me open up extras?
There it is.
There's some palettes,
and there's my QTKit palette.
Okay.
Why don't I close my
preferences very quickly,
and let's just do some
You won't let me open up extras?
There it is.
There's some palettes,
and there's my QTKit palette.
Okay.
Why don't I close my
preferences very quickly,
and let's just do some
Close enough.
Next thing that I want to do is I want
to go into my My Document class and
simply add an outlet to my document.
Let's call it
MmovieView, we've added that.
Little mouse movement here, hello.
Got to wire it up.
Press the control key, and there we are.
We've wired it up, and let's connect it.
Connection made.
All right.
We're cooking.
Now, if I do an inspection,
I can take a look and see what
attributes are available to me.
I can set the fill color.
I have a checkbox for show controller,
etc.
All right.
One more thing to do, and of course,
size does matter.
I've got to set some springs.
And I am done here.
I can close down my nib file,
save the changes that I've made.
and go back into my QTKit simple guide.
I need to add a few lines of code
to make this thing all happen.
Number one,
let's go into my declaration file.
This is what I have to do.
Two things have to happen here.
I can just whack this.
Who is this?
Let's take this.
Two things,
my import statement and my variable
that points to the QT movie view.
I'm done there.
Next, let's go into the implementation.
Couple of lines of code that we
want to add here that are important
that we've already talked about.
In my window control did load nib, hey,
I need to add some code here
that executes when my window
controller loads a movie,
a documents window.
And I'll explain those
once I can move over here.
As you can see, here's what I have,
my initWithFile method.
This initializes my QTMovie object.
With the data from a file,
with the data in the file
specified by the file,
by the name file name, as you can see.
Second line of code,
and this is what you've seen already,
is the set attribute,
my set attribute for key method,
which I invoke.
Now I have a whole list of
QTMovie attributes,
and this is the one that I need that
will enable me to handle the editing
menu items that I need and to support
movie editing in my QTKit player.
Last line of code,
one of the most commonly used,
is the setMovie method.
And in this case,
what I'm doing is I'm setting my QTMovie
object in a QTMovie view to movie.
OK, we're almost there.
Final lines.
Hey, we want to be able to
edit our saved movie.
And in order to do that,
we need an override.
And I think I can get it from here.
and I are going to show you how to
use the QTKit to launch a new project.
Let's go ahead and
There is my simple guy player.
Wow, not really, hello.
And guess what I can do?
I can go into
My Media Goodies, and as you can see,
I will be able to open
up lots of media goodies.
A QuickTime VR, for example.
This is the Apple campus.
You guys have been there.
And I'll just take you
real quick-- whoops,
hello?
VR.
This is where the cafe,
this is the beginning of the napkin
that I was showing you at the Cafe Max,
so.
There is historical continuity here.
And in fact I can open up
QuickTime content, play it.
In addition, I have a contextual menu
that lets me play my movie,
stop it, cut, copy, paste, etc.
Alright, so,
Let's close this out.
As you can see with just
a few lines of code,
I have a working QTKit media player app.
Aha, as they say on the cooking shows,
let's turn it up another notch.
Let's go back into the kitchen.
Why don't we close our
simple guy player down.
Go back into our kitchen and
let's see what was in the oven.
Okay.
Hey, it's the QTKit player import.
Why don't we launch the player import.
Let me just close this down.
And this is where it is.
All right.
Let's check what we've done and evaluate.
Open up.
As you can see,
I've added an app delegate class.
And there's a reason for that.
I won't get into it.
It has to do with displaying the
default movie and also opening
up other QuickTime movies.
Now,
a couple of things have happened here.
In my Info.plist, if I look closely here,
I have added another document type,
movie document data.
And guess what I'm doing?
I'm saying, "Hey, open up the floodgates.
Let me open and display the
broad range of QuickTime content,
still image formats, JPEGs, GIFs,
etc., VR, skin movies, wired movies,
anything that QuickTime can open and
display and that I can play with." Now,
interestingly enough, as you've seen,
I've renamed.
And I think good things
happen when things are baked.
As we have merged,
I don't know how to describe it
exactly from a writer's perspective,
a document-based architecture
with QuickTime movies.
So we end up with movie documents.
And that's what I've named everything.
If we look at our nib file here,
our movie document nib file, no changes.
We've built it using the
QTKit palette and it's unchanged.
We don't have to do any
modifications to that.
However, our main nib, that's where,
let me clear up a little
bit of real estate here.
As you can see here,
this is where we have added
Additional capabilities and done
a lot of different connections.
If you can see, open document,
movie obviously, add scale.
Replace, Trim, etc.
And movie playback.
All the way start, stop, go to frame,
poster frame,
which is really the first frame.
Set fill color, etc.
So we've done some work there,
not too complicated, and it's done.
Let's take a look briefly,
we won't have time to get
into this at great length,
but I want to show you
One of the things that I've done here
as far as an NS document override,
the read from file.
This is important and I'll show
it to you later when we get
to the implementation of it.
This is our declarations are
really quite straightforward.
These are the actions that
I've added as you can see.
Now, if we go quickly into
our implementation file,
you'll see that we have
specified a constant default
width for non-visual movies.
Remember in our original drawing,
we wanted to open up JPEGs.
We wanted to open up VR.
But we also want to open up audio files,
MP3 files, AIFF files, etc.
And this enables us to do that.
It's a pound defined.
We've specified the width that it opens.
And that's that.
So then let's go quickly
down to Read from File.
And this is where you can
see what we have done.
Looks kind of familiar, doesn't it?
The heavy lifting is done
with the movie with--whoa,
sorry.
with MovieWithData.
And this returns NSData and
it opens up the floodgates,
as you can see.
In addition here, the CanInitWithFile,
this is something that
Tim will talk about.
and explain a little bit more detailed.
Also in my panel,
you'll see that I've used the
can init with file as well.
And this takes care of
a lot of goodies for us.
OK, so I'm going to close this off,
build, compile, run.
Hello, hello, hello, hello, hello.
There we are.
Guess what?
Let's import.
And as you can see,
when we look in our Media Goodies
and Contents folder,
we can open up a lot of stuff.
So let's open up very
quickly an audio file.
I like that.
Remember those days?
[Transcript missing]
Now we have beauty,
gone to the end of it,
gone to the beginning.
We could even clone it, and it is big.
and we have editing.
So there you are.
Happy cooking.
So what I want to do now is sort of
pick up where Tom left off on a few
issues and clean up a few loose ends.
So let's go back to demo one.
And I want to open up a project
which is essentially identical to
the first project that Tom built.
And that is here.
In the downloadable code,
it's called QT Advanced Document.
I don't know who gave it that name.
I called it QT Player Extras.
And that's what I'll play with here.
So again, this is essentially the same as
the first project that Tom built.
files will be useful.
Let me just run this out of the box.
Build it, run it,
and now we will open a file.
And I want to go back to my own.
Here's our set of media files and here's
our good old abc.move and it's just that
six second movie that we know and love.
Now there's something wrong with this.
What I've got is a QuickTime movie
that completely fills the
content region of the NS window.
Well, the movie display is fine.
The start and stop button works fine.
The thumb works fine.
The frame backward
button works just fine.
But the frame forward
button does not work.
I can click it all day and
it's not going to work.
What we have here is two
objects that are claiming that
little square of real estate.
The QT movie thinks it owns this
little square of real estate down here,
and it wants to put its
frame forward button there.
But also the NSWindow thinks it
owns that piece of real estate.
And guess who wins?
Well, the NSWindow wins.
Its resize box is what's operative there.
So if you want to have an application
like this where you fill the window,
it would be nice to work
around that particular issue.
And it's actually quite easy to do that.
Let's go into our
windowDidLoad nib and... Oh no,
this again.
Don't you love formatting?
The workaround for this is to
tell the NSWindow object not
to draw its resize indicator,
and we can do that by
uncommenting this line,
which says, Dear NSWindow that's
attached to the movie view,
please don't show your resize indicator.
And there is a similar
method in QTMovieView,
which says,
why don't you show your resize indicator.
Now when we build with
these two lines uncommented,
we should see a little
bit better behavior.
And now we see that the movie
controller has drawn its
standard resize button here,
and we can now use the frame forward
button just the way we thought we could,
and the movie continues to resize
just the way we wanted it to.
So there's a nice little refinement
to get things to work really nice.
One other thing I want to touch on
is Gary showed us how fundamentally
the QTPlayer is built on QTKit.
So let's just have a pop quiz.
Who thinks they know what method
QTPlayer uses to open a file,
to open a movie file?
How many votes do I get
for init with file?
No?
Movie with file?
Oh, you guys are hard.
We got one vote here.
Okay,
in fact it does not call initWithFile.
It uses a different initializer
that I haven't mentioned,
and this is where this
formatting is going to kill us.
QuickTime Player uses a method
called initWithAttributes.
Now the reason we have init with
attributes is to override some of
the default behaviors of QTMovie.
Now we haven't talked a whole lot
about what those default behaviors are,
but one of them worth noting
is that when we open a movie,
we open it asynchronously.
That means when you call initWithURL,
we will immediately return
to you a QTMovie object.
Now it's possible that you
can't do much with that object,
because the data might still
be out there on the internet
ready to come over the wire.
We may have none of that data available,
but we'll still give you
back a QTMovie object.
Well, for some purposes that
might not be ideal for you.
Okay?
So you might want to tell QTMovie, "No,
I don't want you to open
movies asynchronously.
I don't want you to give me a QTMovie
object until you've got the data." Well,
there's no way to do that
with the initWithURL function.
Another reason that you might want
to use initWithAttributes is to
set a delegate on the movie object.
It turns out that you can call
initWithURL or initWithFile.
And then call the setDelegate method.
But in some instances
it might be too late.
Stuff might have happened that calls
a delegate method before we return.
So in those two cases,
to override default behaviors
and to set a delegate,
you'll want to use initWithAttributes.
initWithAttributes is very simple.
It takes a dictionary of attributes.
And I apologize for this formatting here.
But you can see that I'm
building a dictionary.
Here I'm saying one of the
attributes I want you to work with
is the movie file name attribute.
And I'm passing in the attribute
attached to the -- or the file
name attached to the document.
Boy, this is really ugly.
Another thing I can do is in this
dictionary set the movie editable
attribute to yes so that I don't need
to make that separate call after I've
opened the movie to make it editable.
Another thing I might want to do
is open the movie muted so I could
set the volume attribute to zero.
Or if I want I can set the movie
open async OK attribute to no.
It's not OK to open it asynchronously,
I want you to open it synchronously.
So let's enable that code by
turning this one to a zero.
And in fact we'll see no differences
at all in the operation of the
application because nothing
important will have changed.
So for those two instances you want
to override some default behaviors
of QTMovie or you need to assign a
delegate early on in the process,
you'll want to look at this
initWithAttributes call.
So I will leave it at that and
can we go back to slides please?
Back to slides, please.
I know I had a clicker
around here somewhere.
In the graphics and imaging keynote,
you saw Michael Johnson from
Pixar show some of the work
that he's done with QTKit.
And we are very fortunate to have him
here in this session to talk to us a
little bit more about his use of QTKit.
So please help me
welcome him to the stage.
Hi everybody.
Can I get demo three, I guess?
Goodness, I did nothing.
Okay.
So, let's see how much time we got.
Okay, we got a fair amount of time.
So, I have a bunch of different things
that I thought would be interesting
to people and I'm sort of up here,
I guess,
as the token outside person who's
done something real with the
kit so they're not lying person.
So, I have a couple of things that
I wanted to talk about that I think
will be very useful for people.
One of them is threads.
Threads are tricky in QuickTime,
especially if you're a Cocoa person
because it's usually very clear
Cocoa-wise what's thread safe,
what's not,
what should be done in a main thread,
what you can do in a background thread.
And in QuickTime,
thread is very complicated because
depending on what you're doing,
some things are thread safe or not.
And a lot of times you don't
know what you're doing until
you're in the middle of doing it.
And what I mean by that is you
could be opening up some arbitrary
movie that has some codec that
was written in 1992 by Avid,
let's say,
and you might find out that in the
middle of opening up that movie
that it's not actually thread safe.
So, you need to kind of think about
what you're doing with that
stuff and you need to put stuff
in place for exception handling.
And we've gone through this over the last
year and a half with the QT folks and
they've done a really good job of sort
of making this stuff possible and I'm
going to show a little example of that.
Which because I think one of the obvious
things that Cocoa people will want
to do when they walk out of here or
they've already tried to do it and it
didn't work so well or you're smarter
than me and you already got it to work.
Is take a bunch of still images,
read them into a movie in a
background thread with a progress
bar with a little image that's
thumbnail that's showing sort of the
images as you're loading them up.
Because that's sort of an obvious
thing if you saw the little thing
I showed in Tim Schaaf's talk,
you know, that's kind of obvious for me.
I've got a bunch of storyboards,
I need to bring them in,
I need to assign some timing to them
and I don't want to do that in my
main thread because I might have,
I don't know,
I might have a bunch of 3,000 images.
And I also want to have those in a sort
of a tight auto-release pool because the
images that I'm loading are undoubtedly
film res and they're really big and
if you're in a tight loop on that,
it's a bad thing.
So let me show that example.
And I'm not quite sure what the right
way to get this code to people is but
I think what I'll probably do is I'll
leave it in the lab over there so if
people want it they can get it there.
But so--.
Let's see,
do I have this running actually?
Yeah, there we go.
So this is a very simple app.
I'll show you it working first to prove
I haven't broken anything and then
we'll go and look at what I'm doing.
So I'm just going to swipe out a
whole bunch of images here and the
stuff that's on the bottom here is
just a--it's just an accessory panel
that I put on there so that I could
change what the frame rate was of
the movie and how long to hold them.
So I'm essentially holding everything
for half a second here and I also
put this handy thing in there to
tell me how many things I selected.
So we'll say open and we'll put up
a progress bar and since I'm running
just on my little power book here,
it kind of took a to start but now it's
going off and it's doing that and it's
building them there in the background
thread and I'm just sort of monitoring
to tell you sort of how long I think
it's going to be and then here we have
the--we have the movie and it's in there,
it's all fine.
Now one thing that sort of again in
kind of the context of I get to be
the full disclosure guy is one sort of
thread through I think a bunch of the
information that was being presented to
you that may or may not be completely
obvious is that the QT kit is as Tim,
you know, said, this is sort of,
you know, a really great--or at least
I think it's really great,
1.0.
It's, you know, this is not covering
the whole of QuickTime.
This is a very targeted subset.
So I'm going to go ahead and
show you a little bit of this.
So, you know,
the QT kit is a very targeted subset
to sort of get this thing out the door.
I think get it in people's hands,
get feedback and, you know,
get some momentum on this.
So one thing that the QT kit
is not sort of front and center
right now is making new movies.
And so what I did right there
was actually made a new movie.
And so--because all the other
things that they're talking about
are like you're reading--you know,
you're getting a movie here,
you're cutting the movie,
you're taking parts of a movie,
you're taking three movies and making
a movie out of those three movies.
You're translating--you're
taking--you're transcoding them.
But you're not sort of saying,
"Tabula rasa, I got nothing.
I want a movie and I want to start
adding it to it." Because the
obvious thing that you would think,
which is that you would say QT movie,
movie, and then you would start doing add
image for time is not going to work.
And the reason is very defensible.
It's not completely clear
when you think about it,
but it is very defensible,
which is where is that data going, okay?
As you're adding those images,
where are they going?
And you could say, "Oh, well,
they could be in memory." And that's
sort of not what you want to have happen,
you know, right?
You actually want to sort of say, "Oh,
those should be on disk somewhere."
And so what I did for my little app
here was I put a category on QT movie.
And so this is something that's actually
I think very necessary right now,
but I want to sort of show you a
particular way of doing it that
I think is actually important.
So I had a QT kit, let's see,
additions down here.
So I have, I added a little method
called init to file.
So not init with file, but init to file.
And then I implemented this with some,
you know,
carbony stuff to like make a movie and
then hand that QuickTime movie into
the init with QuickTime movie thing.
But the important thing here,
and this is really,
really important because as
opposed to say the app kit,
which is, you know,
the one I started using in '89,
it's probably much older than that.
So it's a very old API, okay?
This is a pretty new one.
It's going to start growing.
And so if you start adding,
you start going category crazy,
which is what I refer to
certain people who go,
"Categories, you're cool.
I don't have to subclass at all.
This is awesome." You are dangerous,
my friend, because I was you.
And because what you'll do is you'll say,
"Hey, boy, you know, these guys,
they showed this, you know,
set movie attribute colon, you know,
and then you're going, you know,
on the editable thing.
You know,
I'm just going to like make a shortcut.
I'm going to put a category in it which
is like set editable with a Boolean,
okay?" Yeah,
but what if like in the 1.1 release,
they like make that be a method?
You'll never know because
you're always overriding it,
right?
How many people understood that?
Oh, excellent.
See, and I bet you were going
to do exactly that.
Not wrong, am I?
So what I tend to do is I tend
to name things in obnoxious ways.
I actually have a different
naming convention than the
self-centered one for this demo,
but I would highly recommend that you
do that because what you're going to
do as soon as you start trying to do
something with the QTKit is you're going
to see all the things that aren't there.
Okay, and then you'll say, oh,
actually I see they are there,
but they're actually an attribute,
and so I'm going to put
this shortcut on there.
Or, oh, you know, let me go, you know,
and, you know, and we all know how to,
do we all know how to like
actually go and find all the
methods that are in a framework?
You have so much to learn, young ones.
And so, I mean, you know,
that's a good example of something
to go do and then realize why you
shouldn't go and just name them exactly
the same way that they would be named.
So, because they might already be there.
And so, that's a very important thing.
So let me just talk a little bit
about what I'm doing here in this
and see how we're doing on time.
Okay.
So I'm not going to spend too
much more time on this because,
again, like I said,
I'll put the code out there.
But some of the important
things about this are,
you know, sort of the basic way this
works is that in the nib,
I actually go and instantiate
a controller which is an
import images controller.
And then that's wired up to the
document as an import images controller.
And this is really just sort of
a nicety that I tend to do in
things of where I've got a bunch
of different controllers to do it.
I instantiate them inside my document.
Nib because it lets me actually wire
them back up to the document so that
the--so that they know about the document
and they know about the document window
because the document window is the thing
that they're going to hang the sheet off.
I could actually just go ask the
document and get the window from
that but I'm sort of trying to
be clear on what I'm doing here.
The--so the other sort of subtly
about this for those of you who
are somewhat newish to Cocoa and
certainly the document architecture,
is that this object which is instantiated
in a nib and is wired up to a couple
things has itself a nib that it
then opens up once it starts up.
And that's actually what has that
accessory view for the open panel
and what also has the progress
bar that has the little image
view and stuff like that on there.
And so this is--that object,
that import controller is
the owner of this nib file.
So--and then he's all wired up.
Now notice the--the--the one thing here
that isn't--that isn't wired up in this
is the document window for example.
And also notice that since interface
builder parses headers and not actually
reading the file that actually that
under our document isn't in there.
So, that's about all I want to
talk about on this thing here.
It's basically, well,
one more thing on this.
So, once we actually start up,
when we start up the,
so we do import images here, oh,
this sucks.
Yeah, you should just get the code.
I can't make this big enough
for this to be useful right now.
But basically what I'm doing is
I'm just getting that information,
getting the URLs of the
movies you selected,
starting up a background thread.
And then the key is when you need
to do things like updating that UI,
you loft that into the main
thread by basically saying
perform selector on main thread.
And you tell yourself to, hey,
with this image, go update that little
thumbnail view in there.
And so there's a whole
category of things that,
again, as a Cocoa programmer,
you know that you don't
touch the GUI from anything
other than the main thread.
But you can be being told to do
that synchronously or asynchronously
from a worker thread which has
just gotten that image and is
just adding it to the main thread.
But adding it to the movie.
So that one I'll sort of
make that code available.
But, so I want to get through and
get some other things here.
So two other things which are, you know,
were not true in the kit when this
first started and are now very true,
which is movie editing
is faster than you think.
And moving editing is
slicker than you think.
And so for that,
I want to sort of go into IB here
and show a little example.
So this is just using our Film Online kit
that has a couple of objects in it here.
And so
So I just have a simple
movie that's in here.
It's just the movie that I was using
to show off to in Tim's talk there.
So this is,
You know, this is the last 22 minutes
of The Incredibles or so.
But so, so here I am,
and now I'm actually going to go
and start chopping that movie up.
Okay, and this is just completely random,
I'm just going in here and doing this.
And so,
if you think about what's going on there,
that's, you know,
where I can actually go and, you know,
pick one of these guys up and,
let's see if we go and put him in there,
whatever.
That's actually like really expensive.
I've got like, you know,
a lot of movie there now.
And, and I've cut those
things together and I'm,
and I can be jumping around in there.
I can go full screen in our
way of doing full screen.
So there's all those things on there.
And it's just, you know, it just works,
which is mind boggling to me.
But you can go pick these things up,
move them around, and you can do them,
which is the amazing part to me,
you know, while it's playing.
[Transcript missing]
The right way,
at least the way I think of this,
is I think of it as if I was opening up
each one of these things in QTPlayer.
And if you've ever kind of opened
up a folder of things and sort
of swiped it out and opened up,
you know,
20 movies or something in QTPlayer,
it's fine.
But then if you actually swiped
out something that had 100 movies,
think about what it has to do.
It's got to show at
least the first frame,
so it's got to actually get a full res
image of that movie in memory somewhere.
Then if it's smart,
and this stuff tends to be pretty smart,
it's probably going to
kind of pre-roll that,
so it might actually have like a
couple of images of that movie around,
because it assumes you're going
to do a bunch of stuff with this.
So the tens one will work fine.
The hundreds of ones, it could work,
but you're going to have a lot more,
you're going to have a much bigger
memory footprint than you might think.
And so the secret is actually very easy,
and it's something that I stumbled
on when I was actually working on,
a thing for the Incredibles where we were
trying to get out all the nominations for
all the animators for the Annie Awards.
And I had been doing
some stuff with this,
some of the in-house stuff there,
and I'd been opening up tens
of shots and maybe hundreds of
shots and these things there,
but suddenly I had to
open up the whole movie,
which is 2,249 shots,
and there was no way I could do it.
So, but then I realized if
I opened up the movie once,
and then each one of my elements
was just indexing into that
movie in a different place,
using a different time range to snip
the media that it wanted out of it,
and actually then insert
it into this other thing,
it would work just fine.
And so when I do things
like the demo I showed,
and I'll talk some more
about this on Friday,
but when I would do these things where
I basically have one QuickTime movie,
and then I have this cut list of it,
and the reason I can open up
that so fast is because I'm
opening up one QuickTime movie,
and then basically just using time
ranges to kind of cut in there and take
those segments out of the movie and cut
them into this other movie that I made,
and all that stuff happens really,
really fast.
And if you're on a dual G5,
that stuff tends to
happen in under a second.
And, you know, for hundreds or even,
in some cases, thousands of elements
cutting those things in.
So the big take home from me, I guess,
on this is when you're
starting off with this stuff,
as soon as you start to scale up a bit,
use Shark and use the memory
allocation stuff in Sampler to
be kind of watching yourself,
if you're going to do stuff
in background threads,
if you can control the
kind of codec chain,
so in that case there,
as those images come in, I use,
like in Tiger, you know,
Pixlet is thread safe, or JPEG,
which has sort of been thread safe,
I think, since it started.
You know, if you know what the codec is,
and you know that it's thread safe,
you can do it.
Otherwise, make sure that you're very
carefully wrapping exception
handlers around things,
and going back to the main
thread to do the stuff in there
if you can't do it otherwise.
That's probably all I have.
Just to do the plug for,
I'm going to give what I hope will
be a fun talk on Friday about some
of the in-house tools that we've done
and some sort of coding practices
that have helped us be able to make
some interesting apps at Pixar,
a lot of them using this stuff.
So I hope you guys use it,
and I hope you understand that it's a,
you know, it's a really good 1.0,
and also, as you add categories,
because you will,
make sure you name them funny,
so that when these fine
folks put out new code,
you actually get the new code,
and you don't just sort of
re-tromp over the stuff with your
old code that was probably fine,
but theirs is probably better.
So, enjoy the show.
Okay, I think we're pretty much done.
Let me remind you of the
two labs that we have.
One tonight,
we'll be here until 9 or later
if you want to be that late.
And then we'll be back here in
the morning at 9 in the morning,
I guess, to spend more time with you all.
So thanks for coming and enjoy QTKit.